# Academics are a pushover social group. 
#conceptnote

Their lack of awarness that they belong to a social group is a direct consequence of their deeply-held belief that they work is not work, but a "desintered pursuit for truth." Beyond the over-romanticised narrative that they are the children of the Enlightenment, the idea that *researchers* (scientists and humanist alike) are curious children grown adult is a product of the late nineteenth century professionalisation of science, and specialy, the 'management turn' in universities post-World War II. The first historical process made academics believe that labour was somehow special, that it was so central to the modern society, that they deserved a shrine – building thus the *idea* of the ivory tower (putting an emphasis on 'idea', since they kept working in smaller and smaller offices). The second process (the turn towards a managerial attitutde towards the organisation of research) further strenched the belief that it had been the objective character of science –not that it had helped built bombs, computers, vaccine– that made its practicioners deserving of tenure. A management-based university, followed soon after by a management-based organisation of academic literature, was based on the idea that since science was so damn successfull because of the 'scientific method' which made truth-seeking obective and systematic. So why not apply the same rationalism to the system of academic labour? The management craze stormed universities in the seventees, and with little effort wiped of the faculty hippie-scientitsts and marxists-researchers. The age of protest was over, 1969 turned old, and rationalism applied to the university meant that there was no longer need for and emotional and social response to empovereshing labour conditions. Meritocracy was bought by researchers because it tasted as sweet as saying that the objectivity of science is what enabled its social power. Yes, ridiculous. But academics not only bought it, but made, constructed, and defended this idea. Now, the idea that a rational system of objective quantification could deliver social goods was being applied to their leather armchairs, even as they started to become chairs and soon-after, flex-spaces. 


---

