# for ICONA, conserving Nature is conserving its "potenciality".
#conceptnote #T-ecology #T-ICONA 

They speak that the "essence" of nature conservation is "conserving its potentiality". They say that doesn't mean presenving that potentiality as seeds in a freezer (which, ironically, it's what will be done with the [[Centro de Recuros Fitogenéticos]], in a sort of [encyclopedic solution to the problem of diversity](seed%20banks%20represent%20an%20encyclopedic%20solution%20to%20the%20problem%20of%20diversity.md)). They speak that this potentiality must be "available": potentiality in several, far-away lands, for all different kind of (plant) species, in large enough quantities, so that their "corresponding germs are in a situation of recolonizing, reconstruct, or cultimate the original biological biocenosis altered by mankind":

> Hay que partir, pues, de la idea de que, en esencia, la conservación de la Naturaleza es conservar su potencialidad. Por supuesto, no se habla de conservar esa potencialidad mediante el almancemiento en frigorífico de gérmenes, sin perjuicio de que esto sea necesario en ocasiones. Nos referimos a una conservación "disponible" de esa potencialidad, de modo que se mantengan en territorios disperos (a distancias suficientement próximas y de extensión adecuada a las cadenas tróficas a conservar) todo el potencial biológico actual, desde las herbáceas anuales las especies climácicas. De modo que sus correspondientes gérmenes estén en situación de reconolizar, reconstruir o culimar biológicamente las biocenosis alteradas por le hombre. Y todo ello con la rapidez exigible en cada caso. (p. 6) ([▵ Circular nº1-1989. Estimación de posibles impactos ambientales de las restauraciones de la cubierta vegetal](▵%20Circular%20nº1-1989.%20Estimación%20de%20posibles%20impactos%20ambientales%20de%20las%20restauraciones%20de%20la%20cubierta%20vegetal.md))

However, in all this paragraph, 'potenciality' remains undefined, but it does seem to hint to the idea of allowing nature to follow its course by designing a context in which the different species can evolve and go back to its "original biocenosis". In a way, this is also a reference to biodiversity, and how this potentiality is only possible with enough variety in genetic material. This is further made explicit: 

> Así pues, la conservación requiere que todas las especies existentes hayan de conservarse en estado de "disponibilidad" real y, por tanto, el mantenimiento de la diversidad genética no sólo ha de tenerse en cuenta a la hora de considerar el posible impacto ambiental, sino que debería integrarse en la política de todo organismo conservador de la Naturaleza. ([▵ Circular nº1-1989. Estimación de posibles impactos ambientales de las restauraciones de la cubierta vegetal](▵%20Circular%20nº1-1989.%20Estimación%20de%20posibles%20impactos%20ambientales%20de%20las%20restauraciones%20de%20la%20cubierta%20vegetal.md))


In terms of practices and policy, this conservation of nature's 'potenciality' and maximising genetic diversity required, what the 1989 memo called, an "integral treamtent of the territories"("tratamiento integral del territorio"). Therefore, ICONA stated that it gave preference to "integrated projects" that already had an evaluated plan according to environmentally sensitive normatives.


However, there's a point I don't fully understand: how does the aim of conserving the potentiality squares with their also stated aim of [ICONA's main aim of the reforestation (in the late 1980s) was to "reconstruct the original biocenosis"](ICONA's%20main%20aim%20of%20the%20reforestation%20(in%20the%20late%201980s)%20was%20to%20"reconstruct%20the%20original%20biocenosis".md)?
