## Some ideas for three applications (~~[[Chargé(e) de mission cartographie de la science ouverte]]~~, [[eLife Freelance Journal Development Editor]]~~, and [[Leiden Project Scientist]]~~)

Dear Hiring Manager,

I am a Neuroscientist and Historian of Science and I would be honored to be part of the eLife community. As Journal Development Editor, my task would be to facilitate communication between researchers, authors, and editors. As an aspiring young academic, my ambition is to change the way we think about and communicate our science.

I have proven experience in cognitive and translational neuroscience research, academic and journalistic writing, and editorial management. I have been actively involved in the founding of the interdisciplinary *Journal of Trial and Error* (JOTE), a journal which rethinks what success means in academia by creating a new and honest way of communicating research results. As its creative director, I coordinate the communication strategy, journal design, and development of the digital infrastructures. I have attended international conferences and events and talked to journalists, researchers, and administrators about the interplay between publication models, epistemic concerns, and scientific careers. In concrete terms, I helped bring to life the first issue of the journal in 2020. 

Together with being involved in the creative development of JOTE, I have proven experience in editorial management. I was the Assistant Managing Editor for the *Journal for the History of Knowledge*. My main tasks were at the interface between reviewers and the editors-in-chief. I had the responsability to coordinate efforts, ensure timely delivery of reviews, and manage unexpected circumstances and delays. I am now the Editorial Assistant for the European Research Council-founded ARTECHNE project. I am the liason point of 2 edited books; I coordinate between chapter authors, book editors, and the publishers in order to deliver in time publication-ready manuscripts within an overarching theme and style. 

As Journal Development Editor at eLife, I expect an array of responsibities. A central task would be to act as point of contact between the different stakeholders of special issues and collections, and overseeing their timely publication. Part of my job would also be encouraging the submission of high-quality, attractive manuscripts and ensuring a positive publishing experience. Finding worthwile research to publish implies an efficient liason between a diverse chart of researchers – I expect to coordinate between senior editors, guest editors, contributors, and bring to the table fresh ideas from the Early-Career Advisory Group (from which I briefly interacted with Vinodh Ilangovan). Managerial aspects that I expect as Journal Development Editor are defining quarterly and yearly objectives and, in short, making budget and aims meet.

I have graduated from 2 research masters: *High Honours* in Neuroscience (Université de Strasbourg, 2016) and *Cum Laude* in History and Philosophy of Science (Utrecht University, 2020). My skills are varied, and I consider myself a truly interdisciplinary thinker and doer. My research is sensible to both the technical and social dimensions of science. One of my specialties is in the history, sociology, and philosophy of scientific publishing for which I  teach a master course. As having solid knowledge on the history of how scientists communicate, I am very sensible to the times that we live now, and the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.

From my background in science, it will come as no surprise that I am an enthusiast of eLife. My studies in the humanistic and social character of science, however, may surprise you. But I am applying to work for eLife for several reasons, most crucially because I truly believe in your commitment to diversity and inclusion. I think that my specific interdisciplinary skills can benefit your community by bringing my expertise in the fields which study science itself. 

I find eLife bold and daring. Your team has driven critical changes in the way science is communicated, such as the recent commitment to post-publication review. This shows to me that your community dares to change the norms of academic publishing and not get stucked in historically-inaccurate myths about how science is supposed to work. eLife embodies the new generation of scientists. I want to be part of this change. Participating in the frontier of scientific publishing comes with a critical responsibility. I would be excited and prepared to take on this responsibility.

